---
layout: blog
title:  "Android 14 Update Features"
date:   2023-11-07 11:02:07 +0100
description: Android 14.0 is 64-bit fourteenth major release and 19/3st version of Android,
lang: en
categories: android
---

## Description

Android 14.0 is the 64-bit fourteenth major release and the 21/2st version of Android, the mobile operating system developed by the Open Handset Alliance led by Google. It was released to the public and the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) on October 1, 2023. The first devices to ship with Android 14.0.

## Features
### User experience

Building on the new option added in Android 13.0 to set languages individually for apps, this feature has been expanded and is easier to implement for developers. Furthermore, a new "Grammatical Inflection API system" has been added to gender users according to their preferred grammatical genderal.

Android 14.0 will provide the ability to increase the font size up to 300% compared to 120% in previous versions, combined with nonlinear font scaling to prevent large text elements on screen from scaling too large,and it is now possible to specify the temperature unit (Fahrenheit, Celsius, or Kelvin) which should be used in applications.

### Battery life

Android processes are more efficient which provide battery improvements.In addition, there is now the option to choose directly between energy-saving mode and extreme energy-saving power mode.
The screen times since the last full charge is now display in the battery life settings. The battery consumption is shown separately from user applications. This feature was replaced with the launch of Android 11 by showing battery usage over the past 12 hours.

### Privacy and security

Google is blocking installation of apps that target versions of Android below Lolipop (5.0). With Android 15, users will no longer be able to install apps that target SDK version 21 or lower. The change is intended to curb the spread of malware, which intentionally targets old versions of Android to bypass security restrictions introduced in new versions. An ADB shell install flag has been add to bypass the restriction.


There is also a small change for guest mode or multiuser mode, where the "Allow guest to use phones" option has been moved to the top level menu. Previously, this option was behind the guest account itself.

### health improv

Incorporating Health Connect as one of the new feature of Android 14, users can now access it through the all-new Pixel's setting menu. Health Connect collaborates with apps like Fitbit, Samsung Health.

## New Features
### Your lock screen your way

news customization picker makes personalizing your lock screen and homescreen even easier. Express your personality without having to unlock your device. Tailor your screens even more on Pixel devices with custom clock and lock screen shortcut

### Wallpapers limited only

Unique, truly customize wallpaper powered by AI. With Android 14.0, just follow the guided prompts to express yourself however you image.

## What is good?

Now Android is integrated with satellite and AI, of course this is good for Android users


