---
layout: blog
title: MIUI 14 A Leap Forward in Xiaomi’s Custom Android Experience
date:   2023-11-07 11:02:07 +0100
description: Xiaomi has officially unveiled MIUI 14, the latest iteration of its custom Android skin, which is based on Android 13. This new version is set to roll out to devices starting January 2023, and it promises a host of improvements and features designed to enhance the user experience on Xiaomi devices
lang: en
categories: android
---

Xiaomi has officially unveiled MIUI 14, the latest iteration of its custom Android skin, which is based on Android 13. This new version is set to roll out to devices starting January 2023, and it promises a host of improvements and features designed to enhance the user experience on Xiaomi devices


### Design and Performance Enhancements

MIUI 14 continues Xiaomi’s efforts to refine its interface, focusing on fluidity and efficiency. The update boasts a 60% increase in fluidity compared to MIUI 13, as observed on the Xiaomi 12S Ultra. Additionally, MIUI 14 uses 23% less storage space, which is particularly beneficial for budget devices


### Customization and Usability

One of the most notable changes is the ability for users to uninstall system apps, leaving only eight essential apps that cannot be removed: Settings, Phone, Mi App Store, Browser, Contacts, Camera, Files, and Messages. MIUI 14 also introduces a feature that compresses files for infrequently used services, freeing up storage space

### Privacy and Security

MIUI 14 places a strong emphasis on privacy, with on-device processing for sensitive items to minimize data transmission risks. Text recognition on images is now processed directly on the device, supporting multiple languages including Chinese, English, French, German, Indonesian, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish


### Connected Devices

The new MIUI version enhances the connectivity between Xiaomi devices, allowing seamless file transfers and app syncing between smartphones and tablets. This feature is compatible with devices like the Xiaomi 13, Xiaomi 13 Pro, and Xiaomi Pad 5, and is optimized for use on 5GHz Wi-Fi networks for the best results

### Visual and Interactive Elements

MIUI 14 introduces new widgets, customizable folders, and animated pet avatars for the home screen. The visual changes aim to provide a more personalized and efficient user interface


### Conclusion

With MIUI 14, Xiaomi continues to push the boundaries of what’s possible with its custom Android skin. The focus on optimization, customization, and privacy reflects the company’s commitment to delivering a user-friendly and secure experience. As Xiaomi devices begin to receive the update, users can look forward to exploring all the new features and improvements that MIUI 14 has to offer.
